Example: replicated deployments (#1632)
liqotech/liqo: docs/examples/replicated-deployments.md

```

Both the commands should return an output similar to the following:

```text
NAME        STATUS   AGE
liqo-demo   Active   70s
```

## Deploy applications

Now it's time to deploy the application.

In order to create a replica of the application in each *destination* cluster, you need to enforce the following conditions:

* The *deployment* resource must produce at least one *pod* for each *destination* cluster.
* Each *destination* cluster must schedule at most one *pod* on its nodes.

To obtain this result you can leverage the following features available in *kubernetes*:

* Set a number of replicas in the *deployment* which is equal to the number of *destination* clusters
* Set [**topologySpreadConstraints**](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/topology-spread-constraints/) inside the *deployment*'s template, which sets the [**maxSkew**](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/topology-spread-constraints/#spread-constraint-definition) equal to **1**.

The file `./manifests/deployment.yaml` contains an example of a *deployment* which satisfies these conditions.
Let's deploy it:

```bash

> kubectl apply -f ./manifests/deployment.yaml -n liqo-demo

Reviewer: The file name is mismatching. The real file is named `deploy.yaml`

# Replicated Deployments

In this tutorial you will learn how to deploy an application, and use Liqo to replicate it on multiple clusters.

![Offloading Multiple Pods Overview](/_static/images/examples/replicated-deployments/replicated-deployments.drawio.svg)

> In this example you will configure a scenario composed of a *single entry point cluster* leveraged for the deployment of the applications (called *origin cluster*) and two *destination clusters*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this example you will configure a scenario composed of a *single entry point cluster* used for the deployment of the applications (called *origin cluster*) and two *destination clusters*.
```

> The deployed application will be replicated on all *destination clusters* in order to deploy exactly **one** identical application on each *destination cluster*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The deployed application will be replicated on all *destination clusters* in order to deploy exactly **one** identical application on each destination cluster.
```

## Provision the playground

First, make sure that the [requirements](/examples/requirements.md) for Liqo are satisfied.

Then, let's open a terminal on your machine and launch the following script, which creates the three above-mentioned clusters with KinD and installs Liqo on all of them.

{{ env.config.html_context.generate_clone_example('replicated-deployments') }}

Export the kubeconfigs environment variables to use them in the rest of the tutorial:

```bash
export KUBECONFIG=liqo_kubeconf_europe-cloud
export KUBECONFIG_EUROPE_ROME_EDGE=liqo_kubeconf_europe-rome-edge
export KUBECONFIG_EUROPE_MILAN_EDGE=liqo_kubeconf_europe-milan-edge
```

```{admonition} Note
We suggest exporting the kubeconfig of the *origin* cluster as default (i.e., `KUBECONFIG`), since you will mainly interact with it.
```

Now you should have three clusters with Liqo running.
The setup script named them **europe-cloud**, **europe-rome-edge** and **europe-milan-edge**, and respectively configured the following cluster labels:

* *origin*: `topology.liqo.io/type=origin`

> * *europe-rome-edge*: `topology.liqo.io/type=destination`

Reviewer 2: Can you please rename the clusters in the picture with the above names?

* *europe-milan-edge*: `topology.liqo.io/type=destination`

You can check that the clusters are correctly labeled through:

```bash
liqoctl status
liqoctl status --kubeconfig "$KUBECONFIG_EUROPE_ROME_EDGE"
liqoctl status --kubeconfig "$KUBECONFIG_EUROPE_MILAN_EDGE"
```

## Peer the clusters

Now, you can establish new Liqo *peerings* from *origin* to *destination* clusters, e.g., using the [out-of-band peering approach](FeaturesPeeringOutOfBandControlPlane):

To implement the desired scenario, let's first retrieve the *peer command* from the *destination* clusters:

```bash
PEER_EUROPE_ROME_EDGE=$(liqoctl generate peer-command --only-command --kubeconfig $KUBECONFIG_EUROPE_ROME_EDGE)
PEER_EUROPE_MILAN_EDGE=$(liqoctl generate peer-command --only-command --kubeconfig $KUBECONFIG_EUROPE_MILAN_EDGE)
```

Then, establish the peerings from the *origin* cluster:

```bash
echo "$PEER_EUROPE_ROME_EDGE" | bash
echo "$PEER_EUROPE_MILAN_EDGE" | bash
```

When the above commands return successfully, you can check the peering status by running:

```bash
kubectl get foreignclusters
```

> The output should look like the following, indicating that an outgoing peering is currently active towards both the *destination1* and the *destination2* clusters, with the two cross-cluster network tunnels marked as `established`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output should look like the following, indicating that an outgoing peering is currently active towards both the *europe-rome-edge* and the *europe-milan-edge* clusters, with the two cross-cluster network tunnels marked as `established`:
```

> The output should look like the following, indicating that an outgoing peering is currently active towards both the *europe-rome-edge* and the *europe-milan-edge* clusters, as well as the cross-cluster network tunnels have been established:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The output should look like the following, indicating that an outgoing peering is currently active towards both the *europe-rome-edge* and the *europe-milan-edge* clusters, and that the cross-cluster network tunnels have been established:
```

```text
NAME                TYPE        OUTGOING PEERING   INCOMING PEERING   NETWORKING    AUTHENTICATION   AGE
europe-rome-edge    OutOfBand   Established        None               Established   Established      41s
europe-milan-edge   OutOfBand   Established        None               Established   Established      7s
```

> Additionally, you should have two new virtual nodes in the *origin* cluster, characterized by the install-time provided labels:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additionally, you should have two new virtual nodes in the *origin* cluster, characterized by the labels set at install-time:
```

## Tune namespace offloading

Now, let's pretend you want to deploy an application that needs to be scheduled on all *destination* clusters, but not in the *origin* one.
First, we create a new namespace, then enable Liqo offloading to it:

```bash
kubectl create namespace liqo-demo
```

Then, enable Liqo offloading for that namespace:

```bash
liqoctl offload namespace liqo-demo \
  --namespace-mapping-strategy EnforceSameName \
  --pod-offloading-strategy Remote \
  --selector 'topology.liqo.io/type=destination'
```

The above command configures Liqo with the following behaviour (see the dedicated [usage page](/usage/namespace-offloading.md) for additional information concerning namespace offloading configurations):

* the `liqo-demo` namespace, and the contained resources, are offloaded only to the clusters with the `topology.liqo.io/type=destination` label.
* the pods living in the `liqo-demo` namespace only on virtual nodes.

```{admonition} Selectors
This example uses **selectors**, but they are not strictly necessary here, as all *peered* clusters have been targeted as *destination*.
**Selectors** become necessary in case you want to target a subset of *peered* clusters.

> To get more information about *offloading with policies* check [this example](/examples/offloading-with-policies.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
More information are available in the [offloading with policies](/examples/offloading-with-policies.md) example.
```

```

> If you query for the namespaces in the *europe-rome-edge* or *europe-milan-edge* cluster, you should see the following output, confirming that the remote namespace has been correctly created by Liqo:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can now query for the namespaces in the *europe-rome-edge* or *europe-milan-edge* cluster, to see if the remote namespace has been correctly created by Liqo:
```

```bash
kubectl get namespaces liqo-demo --kubeconfig="$KUBECONFIG_EUROPE_ROME_EDGE"
kubectl get namespaces liqo-demo --kubeconfig="$KUBECONFIG_EUROPE_MILAN_EDGE"
```

> Both the commands should return an output similar to the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If everything is correct, both commands should return an output similar to the following:
```

```text
NAME        STATUS   AGE
liqo-demo   Active   70s
```

## Deploy applications

> Now it's time to deploy the application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now it is time to deploy the application.
```
